The article discusses China's propaganda efforts in relation to the Russia-Ukraine war. China is described as taking a neutral position in diplomacy, but engaging in propaganda internally and externally. The internal propaganda system of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) supports Russia and finds excuses for their aggression. Chinese state media's reporting on the war has been questionable and censorship guidelines have been leaked to show restrictions on anti-Russian and pro-Western content.

The official account of the Chinese video platform BiliBili posted a pro-Russian song, expressing support for Russia in the aftermath of the Bucha massacre, where Russian armed forces killed and abused Ukrainian civilians during the invasion of Ukraine. Chinese state media, including CCTV, quoted Russia's Foreign Minister denying the massacre and blaming the US and Ukraine for spreading fake news. Chinese media also adopted the argument that Ukrainians are neo-Nazis and promoted conspiracy theories and disinformation about Ukraine and the US.

China's propaganda machine supports Russia and their invasion of Ukraine, with Chinese social media (Weibo and BiliBili) showing evidence of populist support for Russia. China's high-ranking CCP politicians have turned to populism in recent years to revive public opinion, and Chinese public opinion generally supports Russia's invasion of Ukraine. The reason for China's support of Russia is thought to be due to the growing closeness in Sino-Russian relations in various fields including economics and trade. There are also conspiracy theories about Ukraine having a secret biological weapons laboratory.

China's cyber nationalism groups, known as "Little Pink," support Russia through blind allegiance to the Chinese party state. The CCP's management of China's cyberspace has changed from a crude strategy in the past to a more refined mechanism now, including the digital transformation of state media and the promotion of nationalist unofficial blogs. Pro-Russian cyber nationalists in China get information from Chinese official media and view Russia's war in Ukraine through anti-Western angles. The Great Firewall in China blocks access to media such as Twitter and YouTube.

China's state propaganda machine is promoting pro-Russian rhetoric and cyber nationalism, which is causing a backlash in public opinion. A decentralized social media movement called The Great Translation Movement (TGTM) is translating China's anti-Western rhetoric and exposing the CCP's true propaganda. As the US begins to pay attention to China's pro-Russian rhetoric and possibly impose sanctions, China may find itself in a more isolated position in international politics due to its own internal propaganda.

The article references various news sources and sources written by academics discussing China's perspective on the Russia-Ukraine conflict, with a focus on censorship instructions issued by a Chinese news outlet and China's official position on the issue as outlined by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It also mentions China's positive portrayal of Russian President Putin and the potential amplification of Russian disinformation by the People's Republic of China.

The article discusses Chinese propaganda and cyber nationalism during the Russo-Ukrainian war. It examines how China is amplifying Russian disinformation and the reasons behind Chinese sympathy for Russia in the conflict. The article also references various news outlets and studies on the topic, and is published in the journal "Asian Politics and Policy" under the authorship of Daqi (Reinhardt) Fang and is available online through a Creative Commons License.

